OCPVE-233: Add a troubleshooting guide (#343)
openshift/lvm-operator: docs/troubleshooting.md

# Troubleshooting Guide

## Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) is stuck in `Pending` state

> There can be many reasons why a Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) is stuck in `Pending` state. Here we list a few reasons and some ways to troubleshoot them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There can be many reasons why a `PersistentVolumeClaim` (`PVC`) CR gets stuck in a `Pending` state. Some possible reasons and some troubleshooting suggestions are described below.
```

 ```bash
 $ oc get pvc
 NAME        STATUS    VOLUME   CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS   AGE
 lvms-test   Pending                                      lvms-vg1       11s
 ```

To troubleshoot the issue, inspect the events associated with the PVC. These events can provide valuable insights into any errors or issues encountered during the provisioning process.

 ```bash
 $ oc describe pvc lvms-test  
 Events:
   Type     Reason              Age               From                         Message
   ----     ------              ----              ----                         -------
   Warning  ProvisioningFailed  4s (x2 over 17s)  persistentvolume-controller  storageclass.storage.k8s.io "lvms-vg1" not found
 ```

### `LVMCluster` CR or the Logical Volume Manager Storage (LVMS) components are missing

> If you encounter a "storageclass.storage.k8s.io 'lvms-vg1' not found" error, verify the presence of the `LVMCluster` resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you encounter a `storageclass.storage.k8s.io 'lvms-vg1' not found` error, verify the presence of the `LVMCluster` resource:
```

 
 ```bash
 $ oc get lvmcluster -n openshift-storage
 NAME            AGE
 my-lvmcluster   65m
 ```

> If an LVMCluster resource is not found, you can create one based on your requirements. [Here](../config/samples/lvm_v1alpha1_lvmcluster.yaml) is a sample one you can use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an `LVMCluster` resource is not found, you can create one. See [samples/lvm_v1alpha1_lvmcluster.yaml](../config/samples/lvm_v1alpha1_lvmcluster.yaml) for an example CR that you can modify.
```

```bash
$ oc create -n openshift-storage -f https://github.com/openshift/lvm-operator/raw/main/config/samples/lvm_v1alpha1_lvmcluster.yaml
```
 

> If an `LVMCluster` already exists, check if all the pods from LVMS are in `Running` state on `openshift-storage` namespace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an `LVMCluster` already exists, check if all the pods from LVMS are in the `Running` state in the `openshift-storage` namespace:
```

 
 ```bash 
 $ oc get pods -n openshift-storage
 NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS      AGE
 lvms-operator-7b9fb858cb-6nsml        3/3     Running   0             70m
 topolvm-controller-5dd9cf78b5-7wwr2   5/5     Running   0             66m
 topolvm-node-dr26h                    4/4     Running   0             66m
 vg-manager-r6zdv                      1/1     Running   0             66m
 ```
 

> There should be one running instance of `lvms-operator` and `vg-manager`, and multiple instances of `topolvm-controller` and `topolvm-node` depending on number of nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There should be one running instance of `lvms-operator` and `vg-manager`, and multiple instances of `topolvm-controller` and `topolvm-node` depending on the number of nodes.
```

#### `topolvm-node` is stuck in `Init:0/1`

> This indicates a failure in locating an available disk for LVMS utilization. To investigate further and obtain relevant information, review the logs of the `vg-manager` pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This error indicates a failure in locating an available disk for LVMS utilization. To investigate further and obtain relevant information, review the logs of the `vg-manager` pod.
```

```bash
$ oc logs vg-manager -n openshift-storage
```

### Disk failure

> If you encounter a failure message such as "failed to check volume existence" while inspecting the events associated with the PVC, it indicates a potential issue related to the underlying volume or disk. This failure message suggests that there might be a problem with the availability or accessibility of the specified volume. Further investigation is recommended to identify the exact cause and resolve the underlying issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you encounter a failure message such as "failed to check volume existence" while inspecting the events associated with the `PVC` CR, it might indicate a potential issue related to the underlying volume or disk. This failure message suggests that there is problem with the availability or accessibility of the specified volume. Further investigation is recommended to identify the exact cause and resolve the underlying issue.
```

```bash
$ oc describe pvc lvms-test  
Events:
Type     Reason              Age               From                         Message
----     ------              ----              ----                         -------
Warning  ProvisioningFailed  4s (x2 over 17s)  persistentvolume-controller  failed to provision volume with StorageClass "lvms-vg1": rpc error: code = Internal desc = failed to check volume existence
```

> To investigate the issue further, you can establish a direct connection to the host where the problem is occurring. From there, you can proceed with creating a new file to gather additional information and gain insights into the underlying problem related to the disk. After resolving the underlying disk problem, if the recurring issue persists despite the resolution, it may be necessary to perform a [forced cleanup procedure](#forced-cleanup) for LVMS. After completing the cleanup process, re-create the LVMCluster. By re-creating the LVMCluster, all associated objects and resources are recreated, providing a clean starting point for the LVMS deployment. This helps to ensure a reliable and consistent environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To investigate the issue further, establish a direct connection to the host where the problem is occurring. From there, create a new file to gather additional information and gain insights into the underlying problem related to the disk. After resolving the underlying disk problem, if the recurring issue persists despite the resolution, it may be necessary to perform a [forced cleanup procedure](#forced-cleanup) for LVMS. After completing the cleanup process, re-create the `LVMCluster` CR. When you re-create the `LVMCluster` CR, all associated objects and resources are recreated, providing a clean starting point for the LVMS deployment. This helps to ensure a reliable and consistent environment.
```

> To investigate the issue further, you can establish a direct connection to the host where the problem is occurring. From there, you can proceed with creating a new file to gather additional information and gain insights into the underlying problem related to the disk. After resolving the underlying disk problem, if the recurring issue persists despite the resolution, it may be necessary to perform a [forced cleanup procedure](#forced-cleanup) for LVMS. After completing the cleanup process, re-create the LVMCluster. By re-creating the LVMCluster, all associated objects and resources are recreated, providing a clean starting point for the LVMS deployment. This helps to ensure a reliable and consistent environment.

Reviewer: Not sure exactly what "creating a new file" refers to. is the `LVMCLuster` CR? If so, be specific.

Author: I was referring to creating an empty file to see what error they will get from the system.

Reviewer: Ah. OK. Then maybe something like: 
```
From there, create a new file on the disk. This will help you to see the underlying problem related to the disk. 
```

 vg-manager-r6zdv                      1/1     Running   0             66m
 vg-manager-990ut                      1/1     Running   0             66m
 vg-manager-an118                      1/1     Running   0             66m
 ```

After resolving the issue with the respective node, if the problem persists and reoccurs, it may be necessary to perform a [forced cleanup procedure](#forced-cleanup) for LVMS. After completing the cleanup process, re-create the LVMCluster. By re-creating the LVMCluster, all associated objects and resources are recreated, providing a clean starting point for the LVMS deployment. This helps to ensure a reliable and consistent environment.

## Forced cleanup

After resolving any disk or node related problem, if the recurring issue persists despite the resolution, it may be necessary to perform a forced cleanup procedure for LVMS. This procedure aims to comprehensively address any persistent issues and ensure the proper functioning of the LVMS solution.

1. Remove all the PVCs created using LVMS, and pods using those PVCs.
2. Switch to `openshift-storage` namespace:

    ```bash
    $ oc project openshift-storage
    ```

> 3. Make sure there is no `LogicalVolume` CR left:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Make sure there are no `LogicalVolume` resources left:
```

    ```bash
    $ oc get logicalvolume
    No resources found
    ```

>     If there is any `LogicalVolume` left, remove finalizers from these resources and delete them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If there are `LogicalVolume` resources present, remove finalizers from the resources and delete them:
```

    ```bash
    oc patch logicalvolume <name> -p '{"metadata":{"finalizers":[]}}' --type=merge
    oc delete logicalvolume <name>
    ```

> 4. Make sure there is no `LVMVolumeGroup` CRs left:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Make sure there is no `LVMVolumeGroup` resources left:
```

    ```bash
    $ oc get lvmvolumegroup
    No resources found
    ```

>     If there is any `LVMVolumeGroup` left, remove finalizers from these resources and delete them,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If there is any `LVMVolumeGroup` resources left, remove finalizers from these resources and delete them:
```

    ```bash
    $ oc patch lvmvolumegroup <name> -p '{"metadata":{"finalizers":[]}}' --type=merge
    $ oc delete lvmvolumegroup <name>
    ```

> 5. Remove any `LVMVolumeGroupNodeStatus` CRs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Remove any `LVMVolumeGroupNodeStatus` resources:
```

    ```bash
    $ oc delete lvmvolumegroupnodestatus --all
    ```

> 6. Remove the `LVMCluster` CR:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Remove the `LVMCluster` resource:
```
